# Simple Period Tracker
## Current stage: V0.2

### Built with React Native and these libraries <3
- 😊 [op-sqlite](https://github.com/OP-Engineering/op-sqlite#readme)
- 😊 [react-native-calendars](https://github.com/wix/react-native-calendars#readme)
- 😊 [react-native-pciker](and see most recent period dates on home screen)


## What
This is a simple, privacy-focused period tracker that stores your data locally and is usable offline.

## Why
✨ P R I V A C Y ✨
The government should not know what the status of your uterus is. Your data for this app is stored only on your device - I will not collect it, I will not have access to it, and therefore I cannot hand it over to any authority who tries to demand it. There will be a "delete my data" option if you need to wipe your device.

Please feel free to request/submit features. This first version is built around user stories generated by my wife, who wanted a more privacy-focused tracker and didn't like the other options out there.


## Roadmap
### (Will be updated as I go)
#### V0.1
[x] Basic app wireframe
[x] add period start
[x] add period stop
[x] see period history in calendar view 

#### V0.2
[] Edit past dates in calendar
[] Bulk add dates
[] show start of last period on home screen
[] add simple predictive algorithm
[] show predicted period dates on calendar view 
[] show next predicted start and stop on home screen

#### V0.3
[] Add data wipe, add ability to transfer data to new device (may bump this out if it turns out to be v complicated), switch to encrypted db

#### V0.4
Make algorithm more accurate, add visual customization options, add accessibility features (for vision impaired & make compatible with screen reader, also look up what other accessibility features are out there)

#### V0.5 
placeholder for anything else that needs doing that I'm forgetting rn

#### V1.0
pretty it up and package it



# Running locally
#### borrowing a bit from React Native README text and writing reminders for future Kate
## Step 0: Setup
> **Note**: Make sure you have completed the [Set Up Your Environment](https://reactnative.dev/docs/set-up-your-environment) guide. I didn't use a framework so I also followed the steps in the [Getting Started Without a Framework](https://reactnative.dev/docs/getting-started-without-a-framework) guide.

To clone the project and get it ready, run:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/kateapault/simple-period-tracker.git
cd SimplePeriodTracker
#npm
npm install
# or yarn
yarn install

# add ios when ios side started
```


## Step 1: Start Metro
Metro needs to be running in the background. You'll want to keep it running in a separate terminal. 

From the project root folder run:
```sh
# Using npm
npm start

# OR using Yarn
yarn start
```

## Step 2: Build and run your app
**Open a new terminal from the project root folder**

### Android
If you're using an emulator, make sure that's running. If you're using an Android device, make sure that's connected. (Check the setup instructions if you don't have this done.) To make sure whatever you're using is running and ready, run
```sh
adb devices
```

You should see your device or emulator on the list.

To run the app:
```sh
# Using npm
npm run android

# OR using Yarn
yarn android
```

### iOS
**I haven't started the iOS side yet so I'm leaving the instructions as-is from React Native for now**
For iOS, remember to install CocoaPods dependencies (this only needs to be run on first clone or after updating native deps).

The first time you create a new project, run the Ruby bundler to install CocoaPods itself:

```sh
bundle install
```

Then, and every time you update your native dependencies, run:

```sh
bundle exec pod install
```

For more information, please visit [CocoaPods Getting Started guide](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html).

```sh
# Using npm
npm run ios

# OR using Yarn
yarn ios
```

If everything is set up correctly, you should see your new app running in the Android Emulator, iOS Simulator, or your connected device.

This is one way to run your app — you can also build it directly from Android Studio or Xcode.
